MPG REGRESSION WRITEUP:
-------------------------------------

- DESCRIPTION:

Using the "MechaCar_mpg" dataset, a multiple linear regression model was designed (reference MechaCarChallenge.RScript) to predict the mpg of MechaCar prototypes. 

- BACKGROUND:

The "MechaCar_mpg" dataset contains the results of mpg testing data of 50 potential MechaCar prototypes. For each prototype, multiple metrics were collected, including vehicle length, vehicle weight, 
spoiler angle, drivetrain, and ground clearance; each metric represents a design specification that can help identify ideal vehicle performance. 

Linear regressions are a statistical model used to predict a continuous dependent variable based on one or more independent variables fitted to the equation of a line. Since each recorded metric in the dataset is an independent variable of interest, a multiple linear regression will be used to predict the mpg of MechaCar prototypes. The linear regression predicts future observations by calculating the slope and y-intercept values of the linear model while minimizing the overall distance between each data point and the model. To accomplish this, the linear regression evaluates whether the value of variable "A" can be predicted by a linear model and values from variable "B" by testing the following hypotheses: 

Null Hypothesis: The slope of the linear model is zero. 
Alternative Hypothesis: The slope of the linear model is not zero. 

The null hypothesis can be explained by random chance; if no significant linear relationship can be determined, then each dependent value would be determined by random chance, and our linear model would have a slope of zero.  It is possible to assess the significance of the linear relationship between variables by comparing the p-value to the significance level. A p-value illustrates the likelihood that a similar result will be observed if the data is tested again. The significance level is the predetermined cut off for the hypothesis test; for this assessment, a significance level of 0.05% will be used, meaning there is a 5 in 100 probability of being wrong. Therefore, when the p-value is less than our significance level of 0.05%, there is sufficient evidence that to reject the null hypothesis, indicating the slope of our linear model is not zero. 

Also, how well the linear model can be used to predict future observations can be quantified by the r-squared value. The r-squared value (coefficient of determination) represents how well the linear model approximates future data points. Generally, the r-squared probability metric ranges between 0 and 1, where the closer the r-squared value is to 1, the stronger the correlation. 

- RESULTS:

After adding vehicle.length, vehicle.weight, spoiler.angle, AWD (drivetrain), and ground.clearance as independent variables to the multiple linear regression model, the output produced the coefficients for each variable in the linear equation as show below:

mpg = 6.267*vehicle.length + 0.001245*vehicle.weight +  0.06877*spoiler.angle + 3.546*ground.clearance + -3.411*AWD + -104.0

Also, summary statistics were generated to determine which variables provide a significant contribution to the linear model. The summary outputs each variable's p-value, Pr(>|t|), which represents the probability that each coefficient contributes a random amount of variance to the model. The p-values for each variable is displayed below:

Intercept: 5.08e-08 ***
vehicle.length: 2.60e-12 ***
vehicle.weight: 0.0776   
spoiler.angle: 0.3069    
ground.clearance: 5.21e-08 ***
AWD: 0.1852  

*** The vehicle length, ground clearance, and intercept p-values are smaller than our assumed significance of 0.05%. 

The r-squared value of 0.7149 is displayed within the summary statistics as well.

- CONCLUSION/ DISCUSSION OF RESULTS:

Indicated by p-values smaller than the significance level of 0.05%, the vehicle length, ground clearance, and intercept variables/ coefficients provide a non-random amount of variance to the mpg values. In other words, these variables are statistically significant. Specifically, the vehicle length and ground clearance have a significant impact on the mpg. However, the statistical significance of the intercept means other variables and factors are contributing to the variation in mpg and have not been included in the linear regression model. To better predict the mpg of the MechaCar, additional variables such as horsepower will need to be collected and analyzed. 

Also, since the p-values of the vehicle length, ground clearance, and intercept are smaller than our significance level of 0.05%, there is sufficient evidence to reject the null hypothesis, meaning the slope of our linear model is not zero.

Based on the summary statistics, the r-squared value is 0.7149, meaning that roughly 71.49% of all mpg predictions will be correct using this linear model. Although the model sufficiently predicts the dependent, mpg, variable, the lack of significant variables is evidence of overfitting. Therefore, even though the model performs well with the current dataset, it fails to generalize and predict future data correctly. Again, suggesting that additional variables need to be collected and analyzed. 

SUSPENSION COIL SUMMARY WRITEUP:
----------------------------------------------------

Below are the suspension coil summary statistics generated using the "Suspension_Coil" dataset. Refer to MechaCarChallenge.RScript for an additional background as to how the summary statistics table was created. 

Summary Statistics for the Suspension Coil’s Pounds-per-Inch (PSI) Continuous Variable
Mean: 1499.531 PSI
Median: 1499.747 PSI
Variance: 76.235 PSI
Standard Deviation: 8.731 PSI

Based on the above summary statistics, the dataset is normally distributed. A normal distribution is where values farther from the mean of the dataset are less likely to occur than values closer to the mean. Represented by a bell curve, this is demonstrated by the mean and median being approximately the same value. In this case, 1499.531 PSI and 1499.747 PSI, respectively. Also, the dataset has a small variance of 76.235 PSI, indicating that the data points tend to be close to the mean. For each data point in the dataset, subtract the mean and square the result. Then, calculate the average of the squared differences to compute the variance. Thus, the variance can also be described as how far apart the data is spread out from the average (mean) value.  However, since the variance is no longer in the same unit of measurement as the original data due to taking the square, the square root of the variance can be taken to restore the original unit of measure. This is referred to as the standard deviation. The standard deviation of the suspension coil's PSI is 8.731, again indicating the values tend to be closer to the mean. On the contrary, if a large standard deviation were to be observed, the data points would be spread over a wide range of values.

The design specifications for the MechaCar suspension coils dictate that the variance of the suspension coils must not exceed 100 pounds per inch. To verify the current manufacturing data meet this design specification, look to the standard deviation of 8.731 PSI. Since the data is normally distributed, the values will follow the 68-95-99.7 rule, stating that 68.27%, 95.45%, and 99.73% of the values lie within one, two, and three standard deviations of the mean, respectively. Refer to the ranges of each standard deviation below:

One standard deviation (µ ± σ): 1499.5 ± 8.7 PSI
Two standard deviations (µ ± 2σ): 1499.5 ± 17.4 PSI
Three standard deviations (µ ± 3σ): 1499.5 ± 26.1 PSI

Therefore, the current manufacturing data meets the design specification of not exceeding a variance of 100 PSI. Each data point will not exceed ± 26.1 PSI from the mean and remain in the range of 1473.4 PSI to 1525.6 PSI. 

SUSPENSION COIL T-TEST WRITEUP:
----------------------------------------------

- DESCRIPTION:

A one-sample t-test is used to assert if there is a statistical difference between the means of a sample dataset and the population dataset. Therefore, a one-sample t-test was performed if the suspension coil’s pounds-per-inch (PSI) results are statistically different from the mean population results of 1,500 PSI. 

- BACKGROUND:

A one-sample t-test tests the following hypotheses: 

Null Hypothesis: There is no statistical difference between the observed sample mean and its population mean.
Alternative Hypothesis: There is a statistical difference between the observed sample mean and its population mean. 

Therefore, if the output of the one-sample t-test is above the assumed significance level of 0.05%, we do not have sufficient evidence to reject the null hypothesis. Thus, the two means, the sample mean and population mean, are statistically similar. 

Before performing a t-test, the input data must be verified as normally distributed. There are two ways to test for normality: a qualitative and a quantitative test. The qualitative test is a visual assessment of the distribution of data using a density plot. After plotting the density plot, look for the characteristic bell curve shape across the distribution to assess whether or not it is normally distributed. The quantitative test uses a statistical test, the Shapiro-Wilk normality test, to quantify the probability of whether or not the test data came from a normally distributed dataset. Shapiro-Wilks tests the following hypotheses: 

Null Hypothesis: The dataset is normally distributed. 
Alternative Hypothesis: The dataset is not normally distributed. 

Therefore, a dataset is considered to be normally distributed if the p-value is greater than the assumed significance level of 0.05%. In other words, if the p-value is more than 0.05%, the null hypothesis that the dataset is normally distributed is accepted.  

- RESULTS:

The dataset normality was tested both qualitatively and quantitatively. The Shapiro-Wilk test did not confirm a normal distribution; the p-value was much lower than 0.05%, therefore rejecting the null hypothesis that the dataset is normally distributed. 

Since the overall dataset did not support a normal distribution, the data were filtered based on the manufacturing lot to test if maybe the data is skewed because one lot collected a different distribution of data. Then, each dataset based on the manufacturing lot (lot1, lot2, and lot3) were tested for normality. 

The Shapiro-Wilk test confirmed that the lot1 dataset is not normally distributed since the p-value of 0.01091 is lower than 0.05. The density plot of lot1 confirmed the Shapiro-Wilk test and revealed that the distribution is left-skewed.

For lot2 and lot3, the Shapiro-Wilk test revealed that both data sets are approximately normally distributed. Specifically, the Shapiro-Wilk test displayed a p-value of 0.3004 for lot2 and a p-value of 0.8299. Both of which are greater than 0.05%, thus accepting that the data is normally distributed. The density plots of both lot2 and lot3 also confirmed a normal distribution. 

Finally, lot2 and lot3 datasets were sampled randomly, and the mean of each sample was compared to the population mean of 1,500 PSI via a one-sample t-test. 

- CONCLUSION/ DISCUSSION OF RESULTS:

The t-tests using lot2 and lot3 confirmed there is no statistical difference between the means of a sample dataset and the population dataset. Each test output a p-value above 0.05%. Therefore, accepting the null hypothesis that there is no statistical difference between the observed sample mean and its population mean.

Manufacturing lot1 will need to be analyzed further to determine why its distribution is left-skewed. 

DESIGN YOUR OWN STUDY WRITEUP:
-------------------------------------------------

The following outlines a study to compare the performance of the MechaCar prototype vehicle to other comparable vehicle models on the market by evaluating the following consumer interests: fuel economy (mpg) and affordability ($). Also, please note that this study assumes AutosRUs already has a predetermined list of comparable vehicles on the market. 

- FUEL ECONOMY (MPG):

Fuel economy is important when buying a car; higher mpg allows the consumer to drive further on less gas and thus save money over time. The MechCar prototype can be compared to other vehicles on the market via an analysis of variance (ANOVA) test. 

ANOVA tests compare the means of a continuous numerical variable across several groups. The importance of this is that if two groups have the same mean, then they are not statistically different. Thus, the ANOVA tests the following hypotheses:

Null Hypothesis: The means of all groups are equal.
Alternative Hypothesis: At least one of the means is different from all other groups. 

The ANOVA test produces a p-value; the p-value is then compared to the assumed significance level of 0.05%. If the p-value falls below the significance level, then it can be concluded that there is sufficient evidence to reject the null hypothesis. Therefore, the test accepts that there is a significant difference between at least one of the groups compared to the other groups. 

Also, there are two forms of the ANOVA test: one-way and two-way. The one-way ANOVA test evaluates a single dependent variable across a single independent variable, and the two-way ANOVA tests the means of the single dependent variable across two different independent variables. 

Perform a one-way ANOVA test by comparing the mpg across the MechaCar and other comparable vehicles on the market; the mpg would be the dependent variable, and the vehicle model would be the independent variable. Fuel economy (mpg) data has already been collected for the MechaCar. However, mpg data needs to be collected as well for the other comparable vehicle models. After collecting the data and performing the one-way ANOVA test, whether or not there is a statistical difference between the means of the mpg across the vehicle models will be determined. If the p-value is less than 0.05%, then at least one of the mpg means is statistically different from all other vehicle models, and if the p-value is above 0.05%, then the mpg means of all vehicle models are equal. 

If the means of the fuel efficiency (mpg) are all statistically similar across vehicle models, then it is known that the MechaCar is comparable to the models on the market. If the ANOVA test reveals that at least one of the vehicle models has a statistically different mean, then additional statistical tests can be performed. The additional statistical tests, such as graphing boxplots, will determine whether or not the MechaCar has more or less fuel efficiency (mpg) compared to the other vehicles. Boxplots can be graphed of the different samples tested in the ANOVA test to visualize the variation among the sample means compared to the variation within the samples from each group. 

- AFFORDABILITY ($): 

Affordability is another important factor in buying a car. A chi-squared test can be used to compare the frequency of comparable vehicles bought within certain price ranges. The chi-squared test will be good at assessing the price point of the MechaCar. 

For comparing the distribution of frequencies across groups, a chi-squared test can be used. It is especially useful for quantifying the distribution of categorical variables. The chi-square test evaluates the following hypotheses to determine if there is a difference in frequency between two groups: 

Null Hypothesis: There is no difference in frequency distribution between both groups.
Alternative Hypothesis: There is a difference in frequency distribution between both groups. 

If the p-value is above the assumed significance level, we would state that there is not enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis, and there is no difference in frequency distribution between both groups. 

To conduct the chi-squared test, select comparable vehicle models that have been bought from the market over the past year. Then, for each vehicle bought, record the purchase price. Based on the purchase prices of the samples collected, break the purchase prices down into price intervals. While breaking the purchase prices down into intervals, keep in mind that it is important to keep the number of unique values and groups relatively low; it is a good rule of thumb to keep the number of unique values and groups lower than 20. After collecting data and determining the price interval categories, the contingency table, also known as a frequency table, can be built. The contingency table will hold the frequencies of each vehicle model bought within each specified price interval. Finally, the contingency table will be passed into the chi-squared test to compare the categorical distributions. If a p-value above the significance level is returned, then the null hypothesis is not rejected. Therefore, there is no difference in the distribution of vehicle models across different price intervals. 